# Genome-scale enzymatic reaction prediction by variational graph auto-encoders
## Background
Enzymatic reactions network is crucial for the mechanistic function of metabolites and pro-teins, with their specificity determined by metabolite-enzyme interactions. The increasing number of metabolic reactions cataloged in the metabolic databases allows the development of computational methods to predict enzymatic reaction networks efficiently, which will alleviate the time-consuming and labor-intensive experimental approaches.
## Results
In this study, we propose the MPI-VGAE framework to predict the metabolite-protein in-teraction (MPI) in the heterogeneous network. The genome-scale heterogeneous network consists of proteins and metabolites across ten organisms were constructed based on the enzymatic reactions from Pathbank. We optimized the Variational Graph Autoencoders (VGAE) model that incorporates both node features of metabolites and proteins and neigh-boring features to achieve the best performance of MPI prediction. Princinple component analysis (PCA) was performed to learn and transform the binary molecular fingerprints of metabolites to continuous variable, which enhanced the MPI prediction accuracy. Se-quence-based protein features were genenerated by a protein embedding model SeqVec that comes with rapid and computation-efficient performance. Furthermore, the MPI-VGAE showed stable performance in the reconstruction of hundreds of metabolic pathways and five functional enzymatic reaction networks. The MPI-VAGE framework was also applied to the homogenous metabolite-metabolite reaction network and achieved comparable results with the state-of-art methods. The method highlights the potential of MPI network for dis-covery of novel enzymatic reactions. 
